Preface

“Don’t be evil.” Googlers generally apply those words to how we serve our users. But “Don’t be evil” is much more than that. Yes, it’s about providing our users unbiased access to information, focusing on their needs and giving them the best products and services that we can. But it’s also about doing the right thing more generally – following the law, acting honorably, and treating co-workers with courtesy and respect.

The Google Code of Conduct is one of the ways we put “Don’t be evil” into practice. It’s built around the recognition that everything we do in connection with our work at Google will be, and should be, measured against the highest possible standards of ethical business conduct. We set the bar that high for practical as well as aspirational reasons: Our commitment to the highest standards helps us hire great people, build great products, and attract loyal users. Trust and mutual respect among employees and users are the foundation of our success, and they are something we need to earn every day.

So please do read the Code, and follow both its spirit and letter, always bearing in mind that each of us has a personal responsibility to incorporate, and to encourage other Googlers to incorporate, the principles of the Code into our work. And if you have a question or ever think that one of your fellow Googlers or the company as a whole may be falling short of our commitment, don’t be silent. We want – and need – to hear from you.

Who Must Follow Our Code?

We expect all of our employees and Board members to know and follow the Code. Failure to do so can result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment. Moreover, while the Code is specifically written for Google employees and Board members, we expect Google contractors, consultants, and others who may be temporarily assigned to perform work or services for Google to follow the Code in connection with their work for us. Failure of a Google contractor, consultant, or other covered service provider to follow the Code can result in termination of their relationship with Google.

What If I Have a Code-Related Question or Concern?

If you have a question or concern, don’t just sit there. You can contact your manager, your Human Resources representative, or Ethics & Compliance. You can also submit a question or raise a concern of a suspected violation of our Code or any other Google policy through the Ethics & Compliance Helpline. Finally, if you believe a violation of law has occurred, you can always raise that through the Ethics & Compliance helpline or with a government agency.

No Retaliation

Google prohibits retaliation against any worker here at Google who reports or participates in an investigation of a possible violation of our Code, policies, or the law. If you believe you are being retaliated against, please contact Ethics & Compliance.

I. Serve Our Users

Our users value Google not only because we deliver great products and services, but because we hold ourselves to a higher standard in how we treat users and operate more generally. Keeping the following principles in mind will help us to maintain that high standard:

Integrity

Our reputation as a company that our users can trust is our most valuable asset, and it is up to all of us to make sure that we continually earn that trust. All of our communications and other interactions with our users should increase their trust in us.
Usefulness

Our products, features, and services should make Google more useful for all our users. We have many different types of users, from individuals to large businesses, but one guiding principle: “Is what we are offering useful?”
Privacy, Security, and Freedom of Expression

Always remember that we are asking users to trust us with their personal information. Preserving that trust requires that each of us respect and protect the privacy and security of that information. Our security procedures strictly limit access to and use of users’ personal information, and require that each of us take measures to protect user data from unauthorized access. Know your responsibilities under these procedures, and collect, use, and access user personal information only as authorized by our Security Policies, our Privacy Policies, and applicable data protection laws.

Google is committed to advancing privacy and freedom of expression for our users around the world. Where user privacy and freedom of expression face government challenges, we seek to implement internationally recognized standards that respect those rights as we develop products, do business in diverse markets, and respond to government requests to access user information or remove user content. Contact Legal or Ethics & Compliance if you have questions on implementing these standards in connection with what you do at Google.
Responsiveness

Part of being useful and honest is being responsive: We recognize relevant user feedback when we see it, and we do something about it. We take pride in responding to communications from our users, whether questions, problems, or compliments. If something is broken, fix it.
Take Action

Any time you feel our users aren’t being well-served, don’t be bashful - let someone in the company know about it. Continually improving our products and services takes all of us, and we’re proud that Googlers champion our users and take the initiative to step forward when the interests of our users are at stake.
II. Support Each Other

We are committed to a supportive work environment, where employees have the opportunity to reach their fullest potential. Googlers are expected to do their utmost to create a workplace culture that is free of harassment, intimidation, bias, and unlawful discrimination.

Please read the Employee Handbook relevant to your locale. Located in the HR section of our internal corporate site, the Handbook covers in greater detail how we should conduct ourselves at work.

Equal Opportunity Employment

Employment here is based solely upon individual merit and qualifications directly related to professional competence. We strictly prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, veteran status, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy status, sex, gender identity or expression, age, marital status, mental or physical disability, medical condition, sexual orientation, or any other characteristics protected by law. We also make all reasonable accommodations to meet our obligations under laws protecting the rights of the disabled.
Harassment, Discrimination, and Bullying

Google prohibits discrimination, harassment and bullying in any form – verbal, physical, or visual, as discussed more fully in our Policy Against Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation. If you believe you’ve been bullied or harassed by anyone at Google, or by a Google partner or vendor, we strongly encourage you to immediately report the incident to your supervisor, Human Resources or both. Similarly, supervisors and managers who learn of any such incident should immediately report it to Human Resources. HR will promptly and thoroughly investigate any complaints and take appropriate action.
Drugs and Alcohol

Our position on substance abuse is simple: It is incompatible with the health and safety of our employees, and we don’t permit it. Consumption of alcohol is not banned at our offices, but use good judgment and never drink in a way that leads to impaired performance or inappropriate behavior, endangers the safety of others, or violates the law. Illegal drugs in our offices or at sponsored events are strictly prohibited. If a manager has reasonable suspicion to believe that an employee’s use of drugs and/or alcohol may adversely affect the employee’s job performance or the safety of the employee or others in the workplace, the manager may request an alcohol and/or drug screening. A reasonable suspicion may be based on objective symptoms such as the employee’s appearance, behavior, or speech.
Safe Workplace

We are committed to a violence-free work environment, and we will not tolerate any level of violence or the threat of violence in the workplace. Under no circumstances should anyone bring a weapon to work. If you become aware of a violation of this policy, you should report it to Human Resources immediately. In case of potential violence, contact Google Security.
Dog Policy

Google’s affection for our canine friends is an integral facet of our corporate culture. We like cats, but we’re a dog company, so as a general rule we feel cats visiting our offices would be fairly stressed out. For more on this, see our Dog Policy.
III. Avoid Conflicts of Interest

When you are in a situation in which competing loyalties could cause you to pursue a personal benefit for you, your friends, or your family at the expense of Google or our users, you may be faced with a conflict of interest. All of us should avoid conflicts of interest and circumstances that reasonably present the appearance of a conflict.

When considering a course of action, ask yourself whether the action you’re considering could create an incentive for you, or appear to others to create an incentive for you, to benefit yourself, your friends or family, or an associated business at the expense of Google.If the answer is “yes,” the action you’re considering is likely to create a conflict of interest situation, and you should avoid it.

Below, we provide guidance in seven areas where conflicts of interest often arise:

Personal investments
Outside employment, advisory roles, board seats, and starting your own business
Business opportunities found through work
Inventions
Friends and relatives; co-worker relationships
Accepting gifts, entertainment, and other business courtesies
Use of Google products and services
In each of these situations, the rule is the same – if you are considering entering into a business situation that creates a conflict of interest, don’t. If you are in a business situation that may create a conflict of interest, or the appearance of a conflict of interest, review the situation with your manager and Ethics & Compliance. Finally, it’s important to understand that as circumstances change, a situation that previously didn’t present a conflict of interest may present one.

Personal Investments

Avoid making personal investments in companies that are Google competitors or business partners when the investment might cause, or appear to cause, you to act in a way that could harm Google.

When determining whether a personal investment creates a conflict of interest, consider the relationship between the business of the outside company, Google’s business, and what you do at Google, including whether the company has a business relationship with Google that you can influence, and the extent to which the company competes with Google. You should also consider 1) any overlap between your specific role at Google and the company’s business, 2) the significance of the investment, including the size of the investment in relation to your net worth, 3) whether the investment is in a public or private company, 4) your ownership percentage of the company, and 5) the extent to which the investment gives you the ability to manage and control the company.

Investments in venture capital or other similar funds that invest in a broad cross-section of companies that may include Google competitors or business partners generally do not create conflicts of interest. However, a conflict of interest may exist if you control the fund’s investment activity.
Outside Employment, Advisory Roles, Board Seats, and Starting Your Own Business

Avoid accepting employment, advisory positions, or board seats with Google competitors or business partners when your judgment could be, or could appear to be, influenced in a way that could harm Google. Additionally, because board seats come with fiduciary obligations that can make them particularly tricky from a conflict of interest perspective, you should notify your manager before accepting a board seat with any outside company. Google board members and employees who are VP and above should also notify Ethics & Compliance. Finally, do not start your own business if it will compete with Google.
Business Opportunities Found Through Work

Business opportunities discovered through your work here belong first to Google, except as otherwise agreed to by Google.
Inventions

Developing or helping to develop outside inventions that a) relate to Google’s existing or reasonably anticipated products and services, b) relate to your position at Google, or c) are developed using Google corporate resources may create conflicts of interest and be subject to the provisions of Google’s Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement and other employment agreements. If you have any questions about potential conflicts or intellectual property ownership involving an outside invention or other intellectual property, consult Ethics & Compliance or Legal.
Friends and Relatives; Co-Worker Relationships

Avoid participating in management of or decision-making regarding potential or existing Google business relationships that involve your relatives, spouse or significant other, or close friends. This includes being the hiring manager for a position for which your relative or close friend is being considered or being a relationship manager for a company associated with your spouse or significant other.

To be clear, just because a relative, spouse/significant other, or close friend works at Google or becomes a Google competitor or business partner doesn’t mean there is a conflict of interest. However, if you are also involved in that Google business relationship, it can be very sensitive. The right thing to do in that situation is to discuss the relationship with your manager and Ethics & Compliance.

Finally, romantic relationships between co-workers can, depending on the work roles and respective positions of the co-workers involved, create an actual or apparent conflict of interest. If a romantic relationship does create an actual or apparent conflict, it may require changes to work arrangements or even the termination of employment of either or both individuals involved. Consult Google’s Employee Handbook for additional guidance on this issue.
Accepting Gifts, Entertainment, and Other Business Courtesies

Accepting gifts, entertainment, and other business courtesies from a Google competitor or business partner can easily create the appearance of a conflict of interest, especially if the value of the item is significant. Google’s Non-Government Related Gifts & Client Entertainment Policy provides specific guidance on when it is appropriate for Googlers to accept gifts, entertainment, or any other business courtesy (including discounts or benefits that are not made available to all Googlers) from any of our competitors or business partners.

Generally, acceptance of inexpensive “token” non-cash gifts is permissible. In addition, infrequent and moderate business meals and entertainment with clients and infrequent invitations to attend local sporting events and celebratory meals with clients can be appropriate aspects of many Google business relationships, provided that they aren’t excessive and don’t create the appearance of impropriety. Before accepting any gift or courtesy, consult the Non-Government Related Gifts & Client Entertainment Policy, and be aware that you may need to obtain manager approval.

Contact Ethics & Compliance if you have any questions. See the discussion of Anti-Bribery Laws in Section VII(d) for guidance on when it is appropriate to give gifts and business courtesies in the course of doing Google business.
Use of Google Products and Services

Avoiding potential conflicts of interest also means that you should not use Google products, services, internal tools, or information in a way that improperly benefits you or someone you know or creates the appearance that you have an unfair advantage over users outside of Google. For example, you should never approve Google accounts, services, or credits for yourself, your friends, or family members. Similarly, you should not use the tools, information, or access that you have as a Googler to participate in or to generate a financial benefit for yourself or others from invalid ad traffic (IVT) on Google products, such as generating IVT, purchasing or selling IVT (except for the purposes of company sanctioned research), or linking to (or appearing to link to) business partners that may be engaging in IVT. If you find yourself subject to a conflict of interest regarding the use of Google’s products, services, tools, or information, discuss the situation with your manager, Legal, or Ethics & Compliance.
Reporting

Ethics & Compliance will periodically report to the Google Compliance Steering Committee all matters involving Google officers – VPs and above – approved under this section of the Code, and will periodically report to the Google Audit Committee all matters involving Google executive officers and Board members approved under this section.
IV. Preserve Confidentiality

We get a lot of press attention around our innovations and our culture, and that’s usually fine. However, certain kinds of company information, if leaked prematurely into the press or to competitors, can hurt our product launches, eliminate our competitive advantage and prove costly in other ways. Our responsibilities extend beyond not revealing Confidential Google material – we must also:

properly secure, label, and (when appropriate) dispose of Confidential Google material;
safeguard Confidential information that Google receives from others under non-disclosure agreements;
take steps to keep our trade secrets and other confidential intellectual property secret.
Confidential Information

Make sure that information that is classified as “Need to Know” or “Confidential” in Google’s Data Classification Guidelines is handled in accordance with those Guidelines and Google’s Data Security Policy. At times, a particular project or negotiation may require you to disclose Need to Know or Confidential information to an outside party: Disclosure of that information should be on an “only as needed” basis and only under a non-disclosure agreement. In addition, Google policy may require a prior security assessment of the outside party that is to receive the confidential information. Be sure to conduct the appropriate due diligence and have the appropriate agreement in place before you disclose the information.

There are, of course, “gray areas” in which you will need to apply your best judgment in making sure you don’t disclose any confidential information. Suppose a friend who works at a non-profit organization asks you informally how to improve the Google search ranking of the group’s website: Giving your friend site-optimization tips available in public articles and on websites isn’t likely to be a problem, but giving tips that aren’t publicly known definitely would be. If you’re in a gray area, be cautious in what advice or insight you provide or, better yet, ask for guidance from Ethics & Compliance.

And don’t forget about pictures you and your guests take at Google – it is up to you to be sure that those pictures don’t disclose confidential information.

Finally, some of us will find ourselves having family or other personal relationships with people employed by our competitors or business partners. As in most cases, common sense applies. Don’t tell your significant other or family members anything confidential, and don’t solicit confidential information from them about their company.
Google Partners

Just as you are careful not to disclose confidential Google information, it’s equally important not to disclose any confidential information from our partners. Don’t accept confidential information from other companies without first having all parties sign an appropriate Non-disclosure Agreement approved by Legal. Even after the agreement is signed, try only to accept as much information as you need to accomplish your business objectives.
Alphabet and “Other Bet” data

Be sure to protect confidential information of Alphabet or of any Alphabet or Google subsidiary or affiliate (“Alphabet companies”). You may have access to confidential information through collaborations, rotations, 20% projects with another Alphabet company, access to Alphabet buildings or networks, or simply through casual interactions. Don’t access or use confidential information of other Alphabet companies except when authorized and reasonably necessary for valid business purposes within the scope of your work at Google. Take all reasonable steps to maintain the confidentiality of any such information just as you would for Google confidential information.

Don’t disclose any confidential information about any Alphabet company, including financial, partner, business, technical, or IP information, before obtaining appropriate sign-off from Legal, which may include getting consent from affected Alphabet companies.
Competitors/Former Employers

We respect our competitors and want to compete with them fairly. But we don’t want their confidential information. The same goes for confidential information belonging to any Googler’s former employers. If an opportunity arises to take advantage of a competitor’s or former employer’s confidential information, don’t do it. Sho
